Day 1: April 11, 2022 Monday
Graduated BS Ecotourism 2018. Went to Europe December of 2019. Decided to come back home around March 2022. Realized that I spent 2 years abroad helping 
my host family, travelling EU, pandemic happened, eventually getting depressed, and realized after those years I didn't learn new skills to improve myself.
After returning home, I decided to upskill so I could shift my career to IT. 

Registered in freecodecamp to learn the fundamentals of programming/web development. Not yet sure if this is for me, but I will try anyway. 
Applied for coursera financial aid, Getting started with Python, Getting started with Google Workspace Specialization, and 
Microsoft 365 Fundamentals Specialization. No result yet regarding the financial aid. I need to refresh my japanese language skills.
Applied to a call center job next city. Hoping to get a job nearby so I can take care of my mother. 

Useful Links: 
1. Freecodecamp - a free website to start getting the foundation of being a developer.
2. Codecademy - website to familiarize oneself on different IT Career Paths.
3. Coursera - website to enroll to courses offered at universities. 
4. Roadmap.sh - website that shows the different IT career paths and the corresponding skills to learn for each.


Day 2: April 19, 2022 Tuesday
From April 11 up until now I am just reading testimonials of people who were successful tech career shifters despite not having the IT background.
I joined tech groups in different social media platforms (Facebook, Discord), continued on reading about different branches of the IT industry, just familiarizing 
myself. I took the self test from Codecademy btw. https://www.codecademy.com/explore/sorting-quiz/results?advocator=51&questioner=45&solver=32&connector=24 
I also started applying to jobs now. The first one contacted me and told me the salary was below 20k. I think I will not be able to live with that salary, given 
that I will have to start paying for electricity, water, food for two persons, including my rent and transportation next city, if I decided to proceed with 
the application. My mother will be laid off next month because of government mandate. She will stop working now as she is already a senior citizen. 
Sent more applications for remote jobs via linkedin and looked for freelance gigs online. Hope I can get a job by this month. Doesn't matter what and how much
the pay is. I just need whatever amount so I can sustain next month's bills, and hopefully I could have fiber internet installed at home as well so I can look 
for more jobs online and continue studying on free time. I am still using my phone's hotspot for internet right now while browsing resources. 

Day 3: April 20, 2022 Wednesday 
Started the first half of Basic HTML/HTML5. Got accepted as a supaagent, explored the Supahands workspace. Did the training for beginners. It gets complicated 
around Planar, Room Instance and Room Semantic Segmentation. But I will try to learn at my own pace so I can get the hang of it. Requested to join one of the projects. 

Day 4: April 23, 2022 Saturday 
Read a linkedin article about "How to TRULY be competitive for Software Jobs" 
Found out that it is very important to learn fundamentals CS knowledge. Started watching "Algorithms and Data Structures Tutorial - Full Course for Beginners"

Introduction to Algorithms
( Playing a Counting Game )
0:25 - What Is an Algorithm?
6:50 - Guess the Number
12:46 - Defining an Algorithm
21:15 - Evaluating Linear Search
29:58 - Evaluating Binary Search

Algorithms - a set of steps/instructions to complete a task. 

Algorithms should: 
1. clearly defined problem statement, input and output. 
2. the steps in algorithm needs to be in specific order. 
3. the steps also need to be distinct. 
4. the algorithm should produce a result. 
5. the algorithm should complete in a finite amount of time. 

Algorithm are evaluated based on: 
1. Correctness -- (input > problem = output) algorithm is correct is every run of the algorithm against any possible value on the input, we get the output we expect. 
Part of correctness means that for every possible input, the algorithm should always terminate or end. If both is not true, then the algorithm is not correct.
2. Efficiency -- it is important so we can solve problems much faster and we can deliver a better end-user experience. There are two measures of efficiency in 
algorithms. TIME and SPACE complexity. The shorter time you complete a task is efficient. Deals with the amount of memory taken up in the computer. Good algorithms 
needs to bounce between these two measures to be useful. 

Example: you can have a fast algorithm, but it would not matter if your algorithm consumes a lot of memory than you have available. 

Linear Search - sequential search 
Binary Search - dividing the range of values narrowing it down until you get the correct value. 

Big O - Theoretical definition of the complexity of an algorithm as a function of a size. Or notation to describe complexity. 
It is used to classify algorithms according to how their run time or space requirements grow as the input size grows.

1. O(1) or Constant Time - same amount of runtime regardless of the size of n. 
2. O(log n) or Logarithmic Time - concept of binary search. Logarithmic runtime. They are preferred because they are efficient. It narrows down the search 
by dividing the items until you are left with the correct value. Inputs has to be sorted. 

Useful Links: 
1. https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/my-ideal-coding-bootcamp-raymond-gan/
2. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8hly31xKli0
3. https://www.bigocheatsheet.com/


Day 4: April 24, 2022 Sunday
Continued watching Data Structures and Algorithms.

Introduction to Algorithms
( Time Complexity )
36:11 - Efficiency of an Algorithm
42:39 - Constant and Logarithmic Time
49:11 - Linear & Quadratic Time
53:48 - Quasilinear Time
56:23 - Exponential Time
1:04:23 - Determining Complexity

-------

3. O(n) or Linear Time -  the algorithm has to sequentially read its entire input.
4. O (n^2) or Quadratic Time - an algorithm whose performance is directly proportional to the squared size of the input data set (think of Linear, but squared).
5. O (n log n) or Quasilinear Runtime - 
6. O (n!) or Exponential Time - 

Factorial / Combinatorial Runtime
3 Values = 3! 
3x2x1 = 6 

4 Values 4! 
4x3x2x1 = 24 

"We use the worst case scenario as benchmark. Because nothing can be worst than a worst case scenario."

How do we determine the worst case complexity of an algorithm? 

Points discussed: 
1. Algorithm 
2. Complexities 
3. Big O 

( Algorithms in Code )
1:08:22 - Linear Search in Code
1:18:02 - Binary Search in Code
1:28:06 - Recursive Binary Search

Day 5: April 25, 2022 Monday
Looked for online jobs in linkedin, onlinejobs, upwork. 
Submitted resume for japanese jobs. 


Day 6: April 26, 2022 Tuesday
My coursera financial aid got approved today. 
Python for Everybody
https://github.com/csev/py4e

it is important to know which folders things are being run in. 
make sure you are in the same folder.

1. cmd > py >>> chevron prompt (print)
2. ctrl + z (back to the prompt)
3. dir (checking the folders you're in)
4. cd Desktop (change directory and open Desktop) > dir > open folder 
5. python first.py or py first.py (run it)

CHAPTER 1 

CHAPTER 2 
Constants 









